Programming
-

## Common stuff

**Pure** function:

1. always return the same result for same arguments
2. no mutation or output to I/O etc
3. rely only on input args
4. it isn't void function

Pure function can be parallelizable!

**Deterministic** function always produces the same result for the same input parameters.

**First class** function - passing function as argument into another function,
assign function to variable, return function from function.

## Paradigms

**Imperative** programming - is a programming paradigm that uses statements that change a program's state.
Imperative program consists of commands for the computer to perform.

**Structured** programming - is a programming paradigm
aimed at improving the clarity, quality, and development time of a computer program
by making extensive use of subroutines (procedure, function, method or subprogram),
block structures, for and while loops.

**Procedural** programming - is a programming paradigm, derived from structured programming,
based upon the concept of the procedure call.
(Fortran, Pascal).

**Declarative** programming - focuses on what the program should accomplish
without specifying how the program should achieve the result.
(SQL, CSS, regex).
<br>The declarative layer describes what the code will do,
while the implementation layer describes how the code does it.
(The declarative layer is, in effect, a small domain-specific language).

**Functional** programming - is a programming paradigm,
a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs
that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical (pure & deterministic) functions
and avoids changing-state and mutable data.
(JavaScript, Scala).

Functional programming - What not How.

Pure function - no side effects!

Important:
Separate mutation from calculation.
Separate function from rule.

**Object-oriented** programming - is a programming paradigm based on the concept of objects,
which may contain data, in the form of fields, often known as attributes,
and code, in the form of procedures, often known as methods.

**Event-driven** programming – program control flow is determined by events.
(JavaScript).

**Metaprogramming** - is a programming technique
in which computer programs have the ability to treat programs as their data.
It means that a program can be designed to read, generate, analyse or transform
other programs, and even modify itself while running.
